
	Notes on building Xenocara for OpenBSD X hackers

This document presents some techniques that can be useful for people
wanting to hack the xenocara tree. It assumes some basic knowledge of
the OpenBSD build system, as described in the release(8) manual page.

o About Xenocara
  --------------
Xenocara is the name chosen for OpenBSD's version of X. It's
currently based on X.Org 7.2 and its dependencies. The goal of
Xenocara is to provide a framework to host local modifications and to
automate the build of the modular X.Org components, including 3rd
party packages and some software maintained by OpenBSD developers.

o Source tree
  -----------

The organisation of the xenocara directory follows the general
organisation used in X.Org:

- app:	     X applications and utilities
- data:	     various data files (keyboard mappings and bitmaps)
- doc:	     documentation
- driver:    input and video drivers
- font:	     fonts
- lib:	     libraries
- proto:     X protocol headers
- util:	     utilities that don't fit anywhere else
- xserver:   the source for the X servers 

In addition Xenocara uses the following directories:

- dist:	    contains the Mesa sources, shared by lib and xserver above
- distrib:  all binary distribution related tools and data
- etc:	    mtree(8) data files
- share:    make(1) configuration for Xenocara

At the top-level directory two files describe the individual
components of Xenocara:

- MODULES  lists all X.Org components (imported from the X.Org
	   distribution at http://xorg.freedesktop.org/archive/)
- 3RDPARTY lists all 3rd party software components provided in Xenocara,
	   either as dependencies of the X.Org software, or as
	   complements to it to provide a more useable default
	   environment.

o Compiling and installing
  ------------------------

Xenocara is made up of more than three hundred different
independent packages that need to be build and installed in the right
order, especially while bootstrapping (while /usr/X11R6 is still
empty). The Xenocara Makefiles take care of that using the 'build'
target.

  Quick startup guide

The following steps will build and install everything for the first time.

 mkdir -p /usr/xobj
 cd xenocara
 make bootstrap
 make obj
 make build

If you want to use another obj directory see below.

  Requirements

A freshly checked out xenocara tree is buildable without any external
tool. However if you start modifying things in the automake build
system used by many packages, you will need to have the following
GNU autotools packages installed:

    - automake 1.9 (devel/automake/1.9)
    - autoconf 2.59 (devel/autoconf/2.59)
    - metaauto 0.6 (or later) (devel/metaauto)
    - libtool 1.5.22 (or later) (devel/libtool)

If you have your source tree on an NFS partition, make sure the clock
of your server and client are properly synchronised. A test run by
configure will fail if the drift is more than one second. And larger 
drifts will cause other problems during builds anyways. 

  Path

To build Xenocara, you need to have /usr/X11R6/bin in your PATH. 

  Sudo

If the SUDO variable points to your sudo(8) binary in /etc/mk.conf,
'make build' can be run as a normal user. It will raise its privileges
whenever needed with sudo. Otherwise, you need to run make build as
root.

If you have installed the full Xenocara X sets on your system, you
don't need to build all of Xenocara to patch one element. You can go
to any module sub-directory and run 'make build' from there. 

  Source directory

The variable XSRCDIR can be set either in the environment or in
/etc/mk.conf to point to the xenocara source tree, in case you keep it
in a non-standard directory (the default is /usr/src/xenocara).

  Objdirs

Xenocara supports objdirs (and it's even the recommended way to build
things). Just run 'make obj' at any level before 'make build' to make
sure that the object directories are created. 
XOBJDIR defines the obj directory that is used (defaults to /usr/xobj). 
It should be created before running 'make obj'.

  Shadow trees 

Alternatively, the old 'lndir(1)' method can still be used to build
Xenocara outside of its source tree. Just don't use 'make obj' in this
case. 

o Regenerating configure scripts
  ------------------------------

Whenever you touched an import file for GNU autotools (Makefile.am,
configure.ac mostly), you need to rebuild the configure script and
makefiles skeletons. For that use the following command in the 
directory where you edited the autotools source files:

 env XENOCARA_RERUN_AUTOCONF=Yes make -f Makefile.bsd-wrapper build

You can also set XENOCARA_RERUN_AUTOCONF in /etc/mk.conf or in the 
environment to force the regeneration of configure scripts 
in every component during a make build.

o Cleaning in packages managed by autotools
  -----------------------------------------

One common problem when building xenocara is the case where the obj
directory didn't exist (or the symbolic link pointed to a non-existent
directory) when the source was first built. After fixing this problem, 
'configure' will refuse to work in the obj dir, because the source 
is already configured. 

To recover from this in one package:

 rm -f obj
 make -f Makefile.bsd-wrapper cleandir
 mkdir XOBJDIR
 make -f Makefile.bsd-wrapper obj
 make -f Makefile.bsd-wrapper build

or from the root of the xenocara tree:

 find . -type l -name obj | xargs rm -f 
 make cleandir
 mkdir XOBJDIR
 make obj
 make build

for more desperate cases, remove all files from XSRCDIR not in CVS:

 cd XSRCDIR
 cvs -q update -PAd -I - | awk '$1=="?" {print $2}' | xargs rm -f

-- 
$OpenBSD: README,v 1.17 2007/04/09 18:58:23 matthieu Exp $
