The NEWS file was generated from xterm.log.html, which serves as the changelog
for xterm.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Patch #344 - 2019/02/12

     * add  ASCII  escape to default for disallowedPasteControls (prompted
       by discussion with Martin Hostettler).
     * fix typo in ctlseqs.ms (Robert Ross).
     * implement  DEC  Cyrillic  NRCS  (based  on  screenshots  of  vttest
       provided by Markus Schmidt).
     * correct control returning sixel geometry maximum versus actual size
       (patch by Ben Wong).
     * improve  manual  page  for  resize  to clarify that resize does not
       execute   the   shell  commands  which  it  generates  for  setting
       environment variables.
     * improve  memory-management  for  parser, to handle response strings
       that  might  occur  with  ENQ  or when SRM mode is active (patch by
       Martin Hostettler).
     * change  Comment  text  in  uxterm's  desktop  file to work around a
       limitation   of   GNOME's   GIO   application   (issue  #940).  The
       documentation reads:

     Searches desktop files for ones that match search_string.
     The  return value is an array of strvs. Each strv contains a list of
     applications  that  matched  search_string  with an equal score. The
     outer  list  is  sorted by score so that the first strv contains the
     best-matching applications, and so on. The algorithm for determining
     matches is undefined and may change at any time.
     * a  check  of zIconBeep resource was removed in double-buffer fix in
       patch  #334. That is used to decide whether to handle struct-notify
       events.  When  xterm does handle the events, it may negotiate a new
       window-size  with the window manager. In that case, the limitResize
       resource  setting  limited  the new window-size to the screen-size.
       Amended  that  by  eliminating the limit for this special case when
       double-buffer  is configured, and restoring the check for zIconBeep
       when double-buffer is not configured (Debian #919475).
     * disallow  recursion  which  could  happen  if a user configures the
       answerbackString  resource  with  the ENQ code and experiments with
       that code when SRM is enabled (report by by Martin Hostettler).
     * add remaining credits in COPYING file.
     * modify  run-tic.sh  to  check  if  it  is using an older version of
       ncurses  which does not support large terminal descriptions, and if
       so,  remove  a  non-essential  feature to keep within the 4096-byte
       legacy limit.

